hisbah says it carried out another
attack on Northern Israel the Israeli
military confirmed several Rockets had
been launched from Lebanon early on
Monday an officer and a soldier were
injured in the attack and have been
taken to
hospital King Abdullah of Jordan has
called for further International efforts
to prevent a regional expansion of the
conflict his message came as Jordan's
foreign minister met with the Iranian
president to discussed the situation in
the Middle East in a rare visit to Tran
during that meeting the president
reiterated that Hamas political leader
Ismael Han's assassination would not go
unanswered Israel's prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has warned Iran and
its allies that his government would
exact what he called a heavy price if it
was attacked Iran's blaming Israel for
the assassination of hamas's political
leader ishia in tan last week hisbah to
has vowed to avenge the killing of a top
Commander by Israel earlier this
week and in the United States Joe Biden
will convene his National Security team
in the White House Situation Room to
discuss all of these developments is
being reported the US general in charge
of the Middle East General Michael Killa
is in the region for talks in Gulf
countries and Israel and King Abdullah
of Jordan is also expected to speak with
the US
president well for more on all of this
we are live in Washington but first
let's head to Beirut and speak to Zena
hod say as we wait for this promised
Iranian and Hezbollah response we're
hearing report reports of backdoor
negotiations happening at the same time
what more can you tell us about
those well yes International and Arab
diplomats trying to contain uh the
possibility of a fullon regional War now
the message from Iran media close to
Iran is that it will not be restrained
that the decision has been taken
especially since we heard from the
supreme leader himself that there will
be a severe punishment even the
Hezbollah leader Hassan nah referred to
Iran by saying that its dignity was
harmed by um in this attack that led to
the death of ish that assassination so
we saw the Jordanian foreign minister in
a very rare visit in tahran on Sunday um
yes Jordan is in a very difficult
position because the last time Iran
directly attacked Israel uh Jordan did
play a role it helped the US military
intercept Iran missiles and Iran has
warned that any country that takes part
or helps the United States will be
considered a Target but while the
jordanians are saying they're not
mediators um and not delivering messages
between Israel and Iran he is talking
about a very you know serious escalation
in this region so the message from Iran
is that we will not back down now the
question is what kind of a response will
will Iran carry out and what kind of a
response Hezbollah will carry out
because b 2 is threatening a harsh
response for the killing of its Chief of
Staff really in in the heart of Beirut
but what is clear is that they both have
to respond this is very important for
for them because of deterence Iran
sought the attack and April you know
would stop Israel from from carrying out
strikes in in in Iran now of course
Israel has not claimed responsibility
but it is being blamed for killing isma
honey so you know we are still very much
in in the St hand off waiting for this
possible response which really could
escalate tensions in in the region yes Z
as well as all of that to consider
there's also been more fire along the
Israel Lebanon border hisbah says this
though is not the response to the
killing of its top Commander
though yes the exchange of fire
continues along that border but what
we've seen really in recent days is an
increase in the tempo of operations
especially from um Hezbollah Hezbollah
carrying out sustained attacks now um
this of course is not the promised
response uh to the assassination of its
Chief of Staff but this is a message
from Hezbollah that its Rank and file
has not been disrupted by the killing of
its Chief of Staff we have to remember
uh just a few weeks ago and recent
months they lost three of their top
commanders in the southern Lebanon so
these sustained attacks continuing
Israel too intensifying its a strikes in
southern Lebanon in the past 2 to three
days killing up to six people four
Hezbollah Fighters and we believe two
paramedics were the target of an Israeli
air strike in the Border Village of
mesel shabal uh this morning so tensions
really at an all-time high Hezbollah
making clear that it could be more than
one response um they they saying that
they could hit the military Target even
the Secretary General hinting that
civilians also could be targeted we are
expected to hear from the Secretary
General tomorrow an expected speech
tomorrow afternoon to Mark the one we
one week since the killing of its top
Commander okay thank you so much Zana
for talking us through all of that
that's Z hter for us in
beay we're going to go now to Phil level
who is in Washington DC uh covering
reaction from the United States
obviously uh these latest developments
show just how serious the US is taking
all of this Joe Biden uh convening his
uh National Security team as well as one
of the top generals here in the Middle
East talking uh to anyone and everyone
that uh he can at this point in time to
try and keep this from unraveling
further yeah I mean what we're saying
now is diplomacy at the highest level
the fact that we're going to have
President Biden talking to King Abdullah
of Jordan in the coming hours just hours
then before he convenes the security
advisers in the situation room because
there is a very real awareness now that
we may not be talking about weeks or
even days this could be something that
takes place within a matter of hours
there is a very real fear that there
could be an attack as early as Monday
and that is why we have seen over the
last few days all of these meetings all
of these calls for deescalation the
defense secretary here Lloyd Austin
speaking to his Israeli counterpart
twice in the last few days firstly to
reiterate America's um commitment to
Israel but also calling for the need to
De for deescalation and also the
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
speaking to G7 Nations today or rather
yesterday to urge them to do whatever
they can to exert any diplomatic
pressure they can on Iran to really
deescalate this and all of this as we're
seeing that military buildup the fact
that the USS Abraham Lincoln is on its
way to the Middle East the fact that
there are Cruisers there are destroyers
that have been deployed there there are
military personnel that are there and
Michael krilla that senior military
figure also there speaking to everybody
he can to to deescalate this and all of
this against a backdrop where we are
pretty much aware that the relationship
between prime minister Netanyahu and
President Biden is at a very low point
the fact that we are told by advisers or
there have been leaks from advisers that
their last two conversations one in
person here in the US last week one on
the phone in recent days have been tense
uh there was an expletive used by uh an
unnamed official from the Biden
Administration to describe the reactions
that they've been getting from prime
minister Netanyahu and in heret a Biden
official was said to have said that
prime minister Netanyahu is ungrateful
for American Support so the fear fear is
that even though America has to back
Israel it's its main supporter its main
protector its main arm supplier it too
could be dragged into this wider
conflict which nobody really wants no
indeed well the fact that we saw Iran
attack Israel in April will that give
the us or Israel any sort of strategic
Advantage when it comes to uh the
retaliation that seems inevitable from
Iran well on the surface of it you would
think so but of course there are so many
different variables now the fact that as
Zena was just saying that Hezbollah has
said that there could be a number of
attacks the fact that back in April Iran
telegraphed what it was going to do now
that was in the context of an Israeli
strike against Iranian Iranian military
Generals in Damascus so both sides
almost got what they needed out of it
Iran got to show that it could respond
Israel got the warnings that it needed
so that it could avoid any Mass
casualties and both sides effectively
got what they needed out of it but here
it is very different we've heard uh from
one unnamed Iranian Diplomat who has
apparently said that they are not
telegraphing what is going to happen
because Israel has crossed so many red
lines and therefore the uh the the
potential for escalation is really
really high especially if Israel does
respond as it is threatening to do and
the US feels that it has to protect act
okay thank you so much for all of that
Phil that's Phil the for us in
Washington
DC okay well let's get some more
analysis on this with Ibrahim fart he is
an associate professor of conflict
resolution at the Doha Institute thanks
for being with us here thank you first
of all it seems like everyone uh not
just in the Middle East but in the wider
world is waiting and anticipating a
response from Iran what will Iran be
considering when uh it retaliates
eventually yes I think there is a reason
uh for everyone to expect a retaliation
from Iran um and what to expect U from
Iran at this moment one is that to
respond to this uh unprecedented uh type
of attack on Iranian soil uh by Israel
crossing the darkest red line uh that
one can do um in relations with Iran and
by assassinating isia on their soil on
that level so uh this has put Iran in a
very uh difficult position where it has
to protect um it has to respond to this
humiliation that Israel caused it has to
show that it's um able to respond um and
to retaliate and to deliver a a message
that's equivalent to the type of attack
that Israel has conducted so how does it
go about doing all of those things
without going too far and having even
more blowback against Iran because we've
heard Israel and the United States say
that they will respond if Iran does
retaliate well I think what we gather
from uh official statements by Iranians
uh is that Iran at this point does not
really care and uh we have plenty of
evidence to suggest that the type of
response that Iran is conducting is uh
different in nature from the attack that
it the response that it delivered back
in April when it communicated the timing
and the tab of attacks that they're
going to do and the agreement or the
implicit agreement was to deliver
something symbolic but now the Iranian
leadership is making it clear we're not
about symbolic uh uh response there is a
coordinated response with hisbah and it
has to hurt Israel the way that they are
promising and they made this public like
when you make these statements public
you're committing your political Capital
um in the in the process because now you
are expected to deliver on this level so
that's why I think uh we are uh probably
in my view this is the closest point
that where we got to a serious tension
Regional tension and the closest point
to a regional confrontation because yes
though despite the disagreements between
the US Administration and the Israel
government the US remains committed to
engage and to protect Israel and to
respond because there was a state a
warning from the US Administration that
um if the Iranian response is strong
then we will respond as well so now we
are at least on the rhetoric level we're
engaging in some sort of a regional
confrontation you're a professor of
conflict resolution we've seen uh King
Abdullah of Jordan you know calling for
more International efforts to try and
bring the situation under control what
do you make of how the US is handling
this as well as other players uh in the
region and trying to deescalate I mean
or is it just simply inevitable that
there that this is going to uh I guess
the tension is going to ramp up into
more violence it's not inevitable at all
actually and I think the US
Administration Bears the major
responsibility here and it's conducting
to answer your question it's the conduct
of the US administr admin ation has been
really terrible because there is a way
to avoid this I think some sort of a
serious American leadership to deliver
um an initiative at this point speaking
of conflict resolution for example is to
stop the war in Gaza right and I think
this would suffice for Iran to stop or
to to stop itself from responding and
engaging on this but instead of
delivering a political Solution by a key
player like the United States the United
States sending more weapons and is is
arming more Israel and threatening to to
respond this is not the way to
deescalate and disolve conflicts this is
the way to escalate and exacerbate
conflicts at the same time it sounds
like the relationship between Netanyahu
and Biden is deteriorating it's a low e
as uh our correspondent in Washington
said so how is that going to impact uh
what happens here and how the US tries
to control or manipulate Israel in terms
of what's going happen next well I mean
Biden uh is now in a more serious
position that where he can really claim
leadership and take a position he's now
from free from the constraints of the US
elections he's not running for the US
elections he made many threats during
the past months to Netanyahu to try to
intervene and take take a position to
stop Israel but he has never delivered
instead he's sending more weapons and is
supporting more more money and more
diplomatic protection you can't you
can't run this kind of diplomacy while
you're sending uh more arms at the same
time you are asking them to stop so this
is it's it's a contradiction that the US
Administration is doing and it's
unfortunate that um Israel is making the
call here and the US Administration is
paying the bill the is the financial The
Diplomatic and think of the credibility
the image of the US uh the US is is
isolated on this conflict on the way the
stage uh where now nanahu is the only
place where he is received is the US
Congress no parliament in the world is
willing to receive a war criminal that's
wanted by the IC except the US Congress
this is extremely embarrassing and
extremely isolating for the US for for
for the US Administration to be in this
position but instead it seems that
Netanyahu is making the call and uh is
conducting and is executing his plans
and the US here is um coming to serve
and to to prevent Iran from responding
and to pay the cost of the bill that's
that's an equation the US Administration
should never accept when Netanyahu makes
the decision to escalate and assassinate
in Iran and in Lebanon which is
something that Biden opposed at least on
the RoR level on that level then he
should bear the responsibility should
take the the the consequences of his own
actions not that he makes the call and
then Biden comes to to support him and
to serve and to pay the cost for that
we'll have to leave it there but as
always we really do appreciate your
insight into all of this that's ibr frad
for us there thank you thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler